About the job
Company Overview

Metrea is a defense company dedicated to translating commercial innovation into solutions for the hardest problems in national security. With deep mission expertise, Metrea focuses on delivering effects-as-a-service across Aerospace, Electromagnetic & Cyber, Digital & Synthetic domains via its capability groups. Metrea also consists of six support groups (Operations, People, Finance, Legal, Strategy and Solutions) that guide the development of specific capabilities that Metrea's files (product, projects, programs etc) leverage to achieve their targets.

 Capability Unit 

Metrea Algorithmics (MAX) provides unique engineering services, cloud-based cyber operations infrastructure, advanced tactics, techniques and procedures training, and a full suite of wireless communications survey and reconnaissance sensors that enable real-time multi-domain awareness while enhancing command and control.

Position Summary

The Software Developer is responsible for assisting in ongoing efforts to research, development, and prototyping efforts in RF, cyber, and electromagnetic domains. This role is ideal for a visionary developer with the right attitude to learn, and a passion for exploring disruptive technologies, solving complex problems, and transitioning innovative concepts into operational capabilities. This is a fast-paced environment with lots of challenges and interesting projects to work on.

Role And Responsibilities

 Contribute to advanced research and development (R&D) projects in RF, cyber, and electromagnetic domains, exploring novel applications and techniques. 
 Become familiar with how to drive architecture, design, and implementation of next-generation solutions in areas such as software-defined radios (SDRs), electronic warfare (EW), RF sensing, cyber-physical systems, and directed energy. 
 Assist prototype and test innovative concepts in lab and field environments, ensuring viability and performance in real-world scenarios. 
 Collaborate with cross-disciplinary teams including hardware engineers, software developers, data scientists, and security professionals to create integrated solutions. 
 Work closely with senior developers to design and implement various products and supporting systems that enable the team to work towards achieving their objectives. 
 Learn quickly across a wide domain and implement improvements to process existing products or propose new products. 
 Write high quality code to support R&D efforts, new products, or existing products. Primary languages in use are C#, Python, and Rust, but others may arise as needed. 

Skills And Experience

 Active security clearance or ability to obtain one. 
 Bachelor's degree in a relevant field or equivalent experience. 
 Understanding of programming concepts and an expertise of at least one programming language: C#, Python, or Rust. 
 Basic to Intermediate understanding of Linux including how the operating system works, creating services, and basic command line navigation. 
 Basic to Intermediate Networking knowledge including Routing Decision, Network Troubleshooting, and Secure Tunnelling. 
 Some experience and familiarity in one or more of the following: 
 RF systems design, spectrum operations, or radar engineering 
 Electronic warfare (EW) and electromagnetic spectrum operations (EMSO), 
 Cybersecurity, network defense, and cyber-physical systems 
 Machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) applied to RF and cyber domains 
 Familiarity with commercial & defense use of the RF environment 
 Ability to quickly learn new concepts and programming languages. Must be able to handle a multitude of issues or requirements across a wide domain and identify when and how to implement solutions in software. 
 Must be able to work independently and/or with a team of other developers. 

Preferred Qualifications

 Experience working with software-defined radios (SDRs) and RF test equipment. 
 Strong background in signal processing, algorithms, and hardware/software integration. 
 Background in DARPA, DoD, or intelligence community projects. 
 Experience with high-power RF, directed energy, or quantum sensing. 

 Our Culture 

Metrea’s single core value “rooted in humility” is supported by four key attributes; entrepreneurial, systematic, discerning & over-deliver which combined; form our Teammate Firmware, our culture. These attributes are explored during the hiring process, when we grow our teams and to continually support the growth of our culture. We are a hyper-collaborative, dynamically hierarchical organization united by a passion for what we do, and how we do it, who we do it with, and who we do it for

Benefits

Health and welfare

Retirement plan eligibility

 Work Authorization / Security Clearance 

US Citizen

Active Security Clearance or eligibility to obtain Security Clearance

AAP/EEO Statement 

Metrea Algorithmics (MAX) is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Employment decisions are made without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status or other characteristics protected by law.

 Position Type and Expected Hours of Work 

This is a full-time position with typical working hours of Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Hours and work shifts may change in accordance with department and business needs. Exempt Employees must have the ability to be on-call and available, as business needs require. Non-Exempt employees may be required to work over 40 hours per week with approval from the department manager.

 Travel 

10%

 Work Location 

Hybrid in Annapolis Junction Maryland-will require relocation to the area to support hybrid work environment.

 Work Environment Operates in an Office Setting when onsite is required

 Physical Demands

This is a largely sedentary role; however, some physical abilities may be required

 Reasonable Accommodations Statement To perform this role successfully, an individual must be able to perform the responsibilities outlined in this job description to a satisfactory standard. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable qualified individuals with additional needs to perform the essential functions.

#Dice