About the job
Job Description Summary

Becton Dickinson’s Diagnostics Systems (BD DS) Business is seeking entry level software engineers with a passion for delivering great software products that meet customer needs. The right candidate is a self-motivated, positive person who can work independently as well as being a team player, has excellent debugging/problem solving skills, has built innovative forward-looking solutions and appreciates delivering a high-quality product.

The candidate will be part of a highly technical software engineering team developing next-generation laboratory medical instrumentation. The Software Engineer I will participate in a full software development life cycle.

Job Description

We are the makers of possible 

BD is one of the largest global medical technology companies in the world. Advancing the world of health™ is our Purpose, and it’s no small feat. It takes the imagination and passion of all of us—from design and engineering to the manufacturing and marketing of our billions of MedTech products per year—to look at the impossible and find transformative solutions that turn dreams into possibilities.

We believe that the human element, across our global teams, is what allows us to continually evolve. Join us and discover an environment in which you’ll be supported to learn, grow and become your best self. Become a maker of possible with us.

Responsibilities

Deliver robust quality software (code reviewed, unit tested, detailed design documents, well commented code) to the planned schedule
Works with supervision/support to specify, plan, design, develop, test and support software components as assigned
Works with team to establish necessary requirements, specifications, and test plans for software product validation
Supports translating requirements into design and implementation of well-structured and documented software components
Presents/Participates with team in design reviews and code inspections in a constructive manner
Implements solutions to assigned defect issues
Anticipates system faults, failure modes, and unusual events, making sure the software adequately mitigates identified risks
Insure adherence to BDDS development policies and procedures

Required Qualifications

BS degree required preferably in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Mathematics, Physics or a STEM related discipline
Demonstrated positive work ethic with a strong commitment to achieving project goals
Good written and oral communication and interpersonal skills are essential

Preferred Qualifications

Experience with C/C++ and/or C# .NET development preferred.
Experience with Web and/or desktop UI development preferred
Experience with SQL Server preferred
Experience with Agile Scrum process is a plus
Work experience with multi-threaded programming
Work or class experience with embedded programming or robotics
Experience working with latest Visual Studio
Experience with Git

At BD, we prioritize on-site collaboration because we believe it fosters creativity, innovation, and effective problem-solving, which are essential in the fast-paced healthcare industry. For most roles, we require a minimum of 4 days of in-office presence per week to maintain our culture of excellence and ensure smooth operations, while also recognizing the importance of flexibility and work-life balance. Remote or field-based positions will have different workplace arrangements which will be indicated in the job posting.

For certain roles at BD, employment is contingent upon the Company’s receipt of sufficient proof that you are fully vaccinated against COVID-19. In some locations, testing for COVID-19 may be available and/or required. Consistent with BD’s Workplace Accommodations Policy, requests for accommodation will be considered pursuant to applicable law.

Why Join Us?

A career at BD means being part of a team that values your opinions and contributions and that encourages you to bring your authentic self to work. It’s also a place where we help each other be great, we do what’s right, we hold each other accountable, and learn and improve every day.

To find purpose in the possibilities, we need people who can see the bigger picture, who understand the human story that underpins everything we do. We welcome people with the imagination and drive to help us reinvent the future of health. At BD, you’ll discover a culture in which you can learn, grow, and thrive. And find satisfaction in doing your part to make the world a better place.

To learn more about BD visit https://bd.com/careers

Becton, Dickinson, and Company is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We evaluate applicants without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, creed, national origin, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or domestic or civil union status, familial status, affectional or sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetics, disability, military eligibility or veteran status, and other legally-protected characteristics.

Required Skills

Optional Skills

Primary Work Location

USA MD - Sparks - 7 Loveton Circle

Additional Locations

Work Shift

At BD, we are strongly committed to investing in our associates—their well-being and development, and in providing rewards and recognition opportunities that promote a performance-based culture. We demonstrate this commitment by offering a valuable, competitive package of compensation and benefits programs which you can learn more about on our Careers Site under Our Commitment to You.

Salary or hourly rate ranges have been implemented to reward associates fairly and competitively, as well as to support recognition of associates’ progress, ranging from entry level to experts in their field, and talent mobility. There are many factors, such as location, that contribute to the range displayed. The salary or hourly rate offered to a successful candidate is based on experience, education, skills, and any step rate pay system of the actual work location, as applicable to the role or position. Salary or hourly pay ranges may vary for Field-based and Remote roles.